Dyre - A Dynamic Reconfiguration Library for Haskell
====================================================

Dyre implements a basic interface for dynamically recompiling Haskell programs
with new configurations. The inspiration for all this is, of course, Xmonad's
reconfiguration functionality. It is similar in usage to the HConf library
which was written for the Yi editor.

Basic Usage
-----------

The main interface to the Dyre library consists of three items: a datatype for
configuration data, a set of default values, and a function which makes that data
into an entry-point function.

A complete, working example can be seen here:

    -- DyreExample.hs --
    module DyreExample ( dyreExample ) where

    import qualified Config.Dyre as Dyre

    confError cfgMessage error = "Error:" ++ error ++ "\n" ++ cfgMessage

    realMain message = do
        putStrLn "Entered Main Function"
        putStrLn message

    dyreExample = Dyre.wrapMain $ newParams "dyreExample" realMain confError

This code defines a simple library which will display a message on stdout. It
uses Dyre to provide configuration of what exactly the message is. The default
configuration could look something like this:

    -- Main.hs --
    import DyreExample
    main = dyreExample "This is the default configuration"

While a user's custom configuration would be more like this:

    -- dyreExample.hs --
    import DyreExample
    main = dyreExample "This is a custom configuration"

This example can be run without installing. Simply run `Main.hs`[^1] with the
argument '--dyre-debug', to tell it to search for a configuration file in the
current directory. If the custom configuration exists, it will be compiled and
executed, or the default message will be displayed if there is no custom
configuration.

The `Dyre.wrapMain` function is how Dyre is meant to be invoked. It is passed
a set of parameters which configure how it operates. Most parameters have some
good defaults, but can be overriden on the record produced by `newParams`.

The `Dyre.projectName` element is used to search for a custom configuration, the
`Dyre.showError` element is called with compile errors to store the information
in the program configuration, and `Dyre.realMain` is the function which is
ultimately the main program entry point.

For the other parameters Dyre uses, consult the `Config.Dyre.Params` module
documentation.

[^1] You can compile it with `ghc --make`, or simply use `runhaskell Main.hs`.

Restarting and Persistent State
-------------------------------

Restarting is handled by the `Config.Dyre.Relaunch` module. To simply restart,
discarding all state information, use the `relaunchMaster` function.

If the state needs to be preserved, there are two pairs of functions available.
When your program starts, you will want to use either the `restoreTextState` or
the `restoreBinaryState` function. Both of these take a default state which is
returned when there is no persisted state to use.

Then to restart and persist the state, use the function `relaunchWithTextState`
or `relaunchWithBinaryState` corresponding to your chosen restore function. The
state will be persisted and your program restarted for you.
